Welcome, in this video, we're going to look at checking out a branch from GitHub.
In addition to starting with a branch on your local repository
and then pushing it up to GitHub, you could also work from the other direction,
which is to create a branch on GitHub,
then check out that particular branch on your local system.
To start off, I'm going to create a new branch on GitHub.
I'm going to call this branch "update-readme". Press enter to create that branch.
It's currently even with master, which is what we expect.
Let's go into the "README.md" file; let's make an edit to this file.
Once you're done with the edit, put in a commit message,
I'm using the commit message "Tweaked readme", then click on "Commit changes".
Great, now click on the name of the repository;
we're back on the main page, and back on master.
Let's say that I want to continue making changes to the "update-readme" branch,
but I want to do that on my local system. Let's switch back over to our terminal,
and I'm currently in the website Git repository on my local system.
I'm on the master branch, and in a clean working directory.
Doing a "git branch -a" shows that I have master and a reference to 'origin/master'.
I know I just created a branch on GitHub,
so I need to fetch those changes before I can continue.
Typing "git fetch" will update our remote, which would include
any new branches that it might be aware of.
And, at the end, you can see that we have a new branch "update-readme".
Now our references show an "update-readme" on origin.
There are several ways that I can link a local branch
with the "update-readme" on GitHub, but the simplest way is just to check it out.
Type "git checkout"; space; and then the name of the branch
that you want to checkout, even though this branch isn't local.
Now, this only works if you have a single remote repository;
and the reason why this works, is that Git will figure out
what you mean by the name of the branch that you're specifying.
It's first going to look for a local branch named "update-readme",
and when it fails to find it, it will look for the name of that branch among the remotes.
As long as the branch name is unique among your remotes,
it will find it and be able to check out that branch;
however, if you have a scenario where you have multiple remotes
pointing to similar repositories, where there are overlaps with the names of the branches,
Git is not going to be able to figure that out, and thus you'll need to take another approach
to link a local branch with the specific branch on your remote that you want to link.
However, in this case, Git was able to find the "update-readme" on GitHub,
since we only have a single remote named origin;
and, in doing so, it made the assumption that I want to track the branch,
so that my local version of "update-readme" is tracking to the GitHub version of it.
It also automatically switched me to that new branch, which it is a new branch locally.
If I do a "git branch -a", you can see that I have a new local branch, "update-readme",
and technically, they are two different, distinct, branches, because I'm working with
two different repositories; a local repository and a remote repository.
Let's open up our Readme file; you can see that we have the edits that we made on GitHub.
Let's make some further edits; I'm just going to delete this line.
Great, so I've made some edits; going to save and close.
Back on the terminal, I'm going to commit those changes: "More tweaks to README".
Alright, so now we're ready to push up our changes.
And, since this is a tracking branch, we don't need to specify
the remote reference or the branch; we're going to assume the tracking relationship,
wherever that happens to be pointing with our current branch.
"git push", and Git figures out I mean
push to the corresponding "update-readme" branch on GitHub.
Let's check it out; if I refresh my browser, I'm going to switch to that branch
I can see my commit message that I've made on the local side,
and if I click on "README.md", you can see my changes that I made locally.